---
title:  Persepolis 5.0.0
subtitle: New Release!
layout: default
tags:
  - en
modal-id: 11
date: 2024-9-29
img: PDM_500.png
thumbnail: PDM_500.png
project-date: September 2024
category: Releases
---

We are happy to announce the release of Persepolis Download Manager 5.0.0.


The biggest change of this version is that we removed Aria2 and wrote the codes of the downloader section ourselves. Persepolis is no longer a graphical interface for Aria2. it is an independent download manager. The Persepolis downloader part (Persepolis_lib) has been released as a separate Python library in this repository to help other Python projects.
Why we replaced Aria2 with Persepolis_lib? Recently we had problems with Aria2:

  - Users had requested that the number of download connections be increased from 16, but Aria2 did not support more than 16 connections.

  - Aria2 does not support Socks5.

  - Persepolis communicated with Aria2 through xml rpc. Sometimes Aria2 crashed during communication and it was not easy to solve the problem.
  Persepolis_lib supports 64 connections for downloading. Persepolis_lib supports Sock5 and HTTP proxies. Because Persepolis_lib is written by [Python Requests][1], it no longer needs xml rpc. Pay attention that you can download HTTP and HTTPS links with Persepolis.
  [1]:https://github.com/psf/requests


** Of course, we respect the Aria 2 project and believe that it is very valuable. **

In this version, we have fixed some bugs reported by users. Also, dark fusion and light fusion styles were redesigned for this version. Thanks to the [qt-material][2] project.
[2]: https://github.com/UN-GCPDS/qt-material

** Pay attention please: **

1. ** [Please note that the prerequisites for the installation have changed and become less.][3] **
[3]: https://github.com/persepolisdm/persepolis/wiki/git-installation-instruction

2. ** Be sure to finish your half-finished downloads before installing the new version. **

3. ** We recommend Windows users to uninstall the old version before installing the new version. **

4. [Great news for Debin users! PySide 6 has entered the Debin repositories.][4] If you are a Debian sid user, you can install package libpyside6-py3-6.6 instead of package python3-pyqt5.
[4]: https://packages.debian.org/sid/libpyside6-py3-6.6

Thanks to contributors for bug reports!

Regards
AliReza AmirSamimi